# Bright ideas: Long-lasting color performance for field-applied coatings - Construction Specifier Bright ideas: Long-last

Bright ideas: Long-lasting color performance for field-applied coatings - Construction Specifier Bright ideas: Long-lasting color performance for field-applied coatings - Construction Specifier Enter Keyword Section Form+Function Columns Features News Products Videos MasterFormat/UniFormat 00 00 00 Procurement and Contracting Requirements 00 65 36–Warranty Form 01 00 00 General Requirements 02 00 00 Existing Conditions 03 00 00 Concrete 04 00 00 Masonry 05 00 00 Metals 06 00 00 Wood, Plastics, and Composites 07 00 00 Thermal and Moisture Protection 07 24 00 Exterior Insulation and Finish Systems 08 00 00 Openings 09 00 00 Finishes 10 00 00 Specialties 11 00 00 Equipment 12 00 00 Furnishings 13 00 00 Special Construction 14 00 00 Conveying Equipment 21 00 00 Fire Suppression 22 00 00 Plumbing 23 00 00 Heating, Ventilating, and Air Conditioning (HVAC) 25 00 00 Integrated Automation 26 00 00 Electrical 27 00 00 Communications 28 00 00 Electronic Safety and Security 31 00 00 Earthwork 32 00 00 Exterior Improvements 33 00 00 Utilities 34 00 00 Transportation 35 00 00 Waterway and Marine Construction 40 00 00 Process Interconnections 41 00 00 Material Processing and Handling Equipment 42 00 00 Process Heating, Cooling, and Drying Equipment 43 00 00 Process Gas and Liquid Handling, Purification, and Storage Equipment 44 00 00 Pollution and Waste Control Equipment 45 00 00 Industry-Specific Manufacturing Equipment 46 00 00 Water and Wastewater Equipment 48 00 00 Electrical Power Generation 10−Project Description 20−Owner Development 30−Procurement Requirements 40−Contracting Requirements A-Substructure A10−Foundations A20−Subgrade Enclosures A40−Slabs-on-Grade A60−Water and Gas Mitigation A90−Substructure-related Activities B-Shell B10−Superstructure B20−Exterior Vertical Enclosures B30−Exterior Horizontal Enclosures C10−Interior Construction C20−Interior Finishes D10−Conveying D20−Plumbing D30−Heating, Ventilation, and Air-conditioning D40−Fire Protection D50?Electrical D6060 - Distributed Communications and Monitoring D60−Communications D70−Electronic Safety and Security D80−Integrated Automation E10−Equipment E20−Furnishings F10−Special Construction F20−Facility Remediation F30−Demolition G10−Site Preparation G20−Site Improvements G30−Liquid and Gas Site Utilities G40−Electrical Site Improvements G50−Site Communications G90−Miscellaneous Site Construction Hospitals Z10−General Requirements Z70−Taxes, Permits, Insurance, and Bonds Z90−Fees and Contingencies Subtopics Home > Features by Kurt Wood and Lon Bauer Photo courtesy APV Engineered Coatings When it comes to exterior-use architectural and protective coating technologies, the in-depth science and the creation of performance standards behind the beauty is incredible. Polymer resins, pigments, and additive technologies have advanced throughout the years, challenging the governing associations to set the bar even higher for what truly means ‘high performance in construction.’ Color fade or retention is one of the most visible indications of coating performance and many of the technological innovations are focused on improving this characteristic. ASTM International, the American Architectural Manufacturers Association (AAMA), Master Painter Institute (MPI), and the Society for Protective Coatings (SSPC) are four of the influential governing agencies advocating and setting standards for manufacturers and professionals in the industry. How are technology advancements proven? In short, by a lot of testing. However, when it comes to color fade the question to explore is whether pigmented coatings should be tested to the standard, or adapted to suit the chemistry and substrate. Moreover, what proper standards for color retention should be required for field-applied coatings? Standard practice for testing weatherability and color retention Being able to accurately predict service life through weathering testing allows coating manufacturers to estimate failure rates, establish warranty conditions, and set customer expectations. Prior to launching an exterior coating into the marketplace, accelerated weathering tests are conducted on the prototype coatings to assess their ability to perform under high ultraviolet (UV), elevated heat and temperature, humidity, oxygen, water, and atmospheric pollutants found in harsh climates. Test chambers can replicate or intensify outdoor environmental conditions with extreme UVA and UVB exposure, as well as wet-dry cycles. Figure 1: Early polyvinylidene fluoride (PVDF)-acrylic coatings, on exposure in Florida for more than 40 years. Unexposed portion of the coating is at the top. The number at the top left of each panel denotes the month and year of exposure. Typical coating thickness values are 25 μm (1 mils). The panels show gloss loss but no chalking. Image courtesy Arkema Inc. To further validate the performance of new technologies, panels coated with prototype formulations are also tested at specific locations with challenging climatic conditions ( e.g. south Florida below 27 degrees latitude) at specified angles ( e.g. 45-degree angle facing south), maximizing the annual exposure to solar radiation. These natural weathering tests replicate real-world UV exposure and other environmental conditions, but they are typically more aggressive than the weathering conditions seen by most materials in their end-use environments. In both natural and accelerated weathering testing, new prototype materials are directly compared against previous iterations of the same chemistry, as well as against commercial formulations based on standard chemistries, to quantify improvements in performance. When it comes to measuring color change due to weathering, the most commonly used metric is Delta E (Δ E). It quantifies the total color difference between the exposed panel and the original color. Gloss change and chalking are also recorded and evaluated, as both these properties contribute to changes in coating appearance. Understanding the testing standards for high-performance coatings It is important to give an overview and comparison of a few of the important standards produced by the aforementioned governing agencies impacting the specifications of color retention. According to AAMA , the purpose of 2605, Voluntary Specification, Performance Requirements and Test Procedures for Superior Performing Organic Coatings on Aluminum Extrusions and Panels (with Coil Coating Appendix), is to “…assist the architect, owner, and contractor to specify and obtain factory-applied organic coatings, which will provide and maintain superior [2605] level of performance in terms of film integrity, exterior weatherability, and general appearance over a period of many years.” Coatings with high fluoropolymer resin content, typically 70 percent of total polymer weight, meet AAMA 2605. Under this standard, there are 17 ASTM test methods with criteria for compliance. For the weathering section 7.9, this standard specifies a maximum of 5 Δ E (Hunter) units of color change as per ASTM D2244, Standard Practice for Calculation of Color Tolerances and Color Differences from Instrumentally Measured Color Coordinates , after an exposure time of 10 years in south Florida at a south-facing, 45-degree angle. However, AAMA 2605 outlines “new colors, whether formulated by a paint manufacturer or blended by an applicator according to a paint manufacturer’s specifications, may be qualified without the exposure test…provided they are produced with the same pigments in the same coating resin system on a color on which acceptable ten (10) year test data is available and which is within the ± Hunter Units in lightness (L).” In terms of chalking, AAMA 2605 stipulates testing per ASTM D4214, Standard Test Methods for Evaluating the Degree of Chalking of Exterior Paint Films , Method A after natural weather testing has been completed with 10 years of exposure data. To comply, coatings must have a minimum rating of eight for colors and six for whites, on a scale of zero to 10 (10 equals no chalking). Gloss is read at 60 degrees on unexposed and exposed areas of the test area per ASTM D523, Standard Test Method for Specular Gloss , and the coating must retain a minimum of 50 percent of the original gloss, after the 10-year exposure period. Pages: 1 2 3 4 Got News? Click here to share your story! AAMA Coatings Color retention Division 09 Exterior Walls Weathering testing Leave a Comment Comments Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment * Name * Email * Website Current ye@r * Leave this field empty About Us | Advertise | Contact | Terms and Conditions of Use | Privacy Policy | Cookie Policy | Subscribe Copyright ©2025 Kenilworth Media Inc. All Rights Reserved. Login Lost your password? Don't have an account? Register here Register Sign-up for your account with the Construction Specifier. Your account gives you unlimited free access to our e-book Collection, Newsletter Archives and our Digital Editions of the Construction Specifier. Please check the box below to confirm you would like to be added to Kenilworth Media’s various e-mail communications (includes e-newsletters, digital editions of the magazine, a survey now and then, and offers to the design-build industry*). Leave this empty: YES, I CONSENT *We do not sell your e-mail address to 3rd parties, we simply forward their offers to you. Of course, you always have the right to unsubscribe from any communications you receive from us, should you change your mind in the future. Leave this empty: We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept All”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent. Cookie Settings Accept All Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cookies ensure basic functionalities and security features of the website, anonymously. Cookie Duration Description cookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Analytics". cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional 11 months The cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cookies in the category "Functional". cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookies is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Necessary". cookielawinfo-checkbox-others 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Other. cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Performance". JSESSIONID session The JSESSIONID cookie is used by New Relic to store a session identifier so that New Relic can monitor session counts for an application. viewed_cookie_policy 11 months The cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user has consented to the use of cookies. It does not store any personal data. Functional functional Functional cookies help to perform certain functionalities like sharing the content of the website on social media platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Cookie Duration Description __cf_bm 30 minutes This cookie, set by Cloudflare, is used to support Cloudflare Bot Management. Performance performance Performance cookies are used to understand and analyze the key performance indexes of the website which helps in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics analytics Analytical cookies are used to understand how visitors interact with the website. These cookies help provide information on metrics the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Cookie Duration Description _ga 2 years The _ga cookie, installed by Google Analytics, calculates visitor, session and campaign data and also keeps track of site usage for the site's analytics report. The cookie stores information anonymously and assigns a randomly generated number to recognize unique visitors. _gat 1 minute This cookie is installed by Google Universal Analytics to restrain request rate and thus limit the collection of data on high traffic sites. _gat_UA- 1 minute A variation of the _gat cookie set by Google Analytics and Google Tag Manager to allow website owners to track visitor behaviour and measure site performance. The pattern element in the name contains the unique identity number of the account or website it relates to. _gid 1 day Installed by Google Analytics, _gid cookie stores information on how visitors use a website, while also creating an analytics report of the website's performance. Some of the data that are collected include the number of visitors, their source, and the pages they visit anonymously. CONSENT 2 years YouTube sets this cookie via embedded youtube-videos and registers anonymous statistical data. Advertisement advertisement Advertisement cookies are used to provide visitors with relevant ads and marketing campaigns. These cookies track visitors across websites and collect information to provide customized ads. Cookie Duration Description ADV_u_id 3 months 8 days Unique customer identifier used to track unique ad views and interactions with some ads. loc never AddThis sets this geolocation cookie to help understand the location of users who share the information. OAGEO session OpenX sets this cookie to avoid the repeated display of the same ad. OAID 1 year Cookie set to record whether the user has opted out of the collection of information by the AdsWizz Service Cookies. VISITOR_INFO1_LIVE 5 months 27 days A cookie set by YouTube to measure bandwidth that determines whether the user gets the new or old player interface. YSC session YSC cookie is set by Youtube and is used to track the views of embedded videos on Youtube pages. Others others Other uncategorized cookies are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category as yet. Save & Accept

*(Source: https://www.constructionspecifier.com/bright-ideas-long-lasting-color-performance-for-field-applied-coatings/)*